# Understanding GuestbooksActivity's UI [](id=understanding-guestbooksactivitys-ui)

Recall that you used Android Studio's Navigation Drawer Activity template to 
create `GuestbooksActivity`. Any activity this template creates contains a 
navigation drawer and all the components the activity needs. This includes 
layout files that display content. Currently, these files contain simple 
placeholder content. You'll replace this content shortly with content from your 
Guestbook portlet. Before doing so, however, you should know where the 
placeholder content exists in the project's structure and how the app displays 
it. 

The app's UI is defined by three layout files that combine to display the app's 
content: 

1. `activity_guestbooks.xml`: The activity's main layout file. This layout 
   defines the navigation drawer and includes the `app_bar_guestbooks` layout. 
   The latter appears when the navigation drawer is closed. 

2. `app_bar_guestbooks.xml`: Defines the action bar (app bar) and includes the 
   `content_guestbooks` layout. 

3. `content_guestbooks.xml`: Defines the activity's main content, which appears 
   below the action bar. 

First, you'll learn how `activity_guestbooks.xml` works. 

## Understanding the Activity's Main Layout File [](id=understanding-the-activitys-main-layout-file)

First, open `GuestbooksActivity`'s main layout file, `activity_guestbooks.xml`. 
This file should look similar to this one: 

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
    <android.support.v4.widget.DrawerLayout 
        xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
        xmlns:app="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res-auto"
        xmlns:tools="http://schemas.android.com/tools" 
        android:id="@+id/drawer_layout"
        android:layout_width="match_parent" 
        android:layout_height="match_parent"
        android:fitsSystemWindows="true" 
        tools:openDrawer="start">

        <include layout="@layout/app_bar_guestbooks" 
            android:layout_width="match_parent"
            android:layout_height="match_parent" />

        <android.support.design.widget.NavigationView 
            android:id="@+id/nav_view"
            android:layout_width="wrap_content" 
            android:layout_height="match_parent"
            android:layout_gravity="start" 
            android:fitsSystemWindows="true"
            app:headerLayout="@layout/nav_header_guestbooks" 
            app:menu="@menu/activity_guestbooks_drawer" />

    </android.support.v4.widget.DrawerLayout>

This isn't much code considering everything that's in `GuestbooksActivity`. The 
`NavigationView` and its parent `DrawerLayout` define the navigation drawer. Two 
attributes in `NavigationView` define the drawer's contents: `app:headerLayout` 
and `app:menu`. The `app:headerLayout` value `"@layout/nav_header_guestbooks"` 
specifies that the layout `res/layout/nav_header_guestbooks.xml` renders the 
drawer's header section. The `app:menu` value 
`"@menu/activity_guestbooks_drawer"` specifies that the menu in 
`res/menu/activity_guestbooks_drawer.xml` creates the drawer's items. Above the 
`NavigationView`, the `include` statement adds the layout 
`app_bar_guestbooks.xml` as the content shown when the navigation drawer is 
closed. The following diagram illustrates how `activity_guestbooks.xml` maps to 
the UI. 

![Figure 1: The `activity_guestbooks.xml` layout defines the app's main UI components.](../../../images/android-activity-guestbooks.png)

The activity's main content also contains a toolbar (the action bar), some text, 
and a 
[floating action button](https://www.google.com/design/spec/components/buttons-floating-action-button.html). 
Next, you'll see how these are defined. 

## Understanding the app_bar_guestbooks and content_guestbooks Layouts [](id=understanding-the-appbarguestbooks-and-contentguestbooks-layouts)

Open `app_bar_guestbooks.xml`. It should look similar to this: 

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
    <android.support.design.widget.CoordinatorLayout
        xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
        xmlns:app="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res-auto"
        xmlns:tools="http://schemas.android.com/tools" 
        android:layout_width="match_parent"
        android:layout_height="match_parent" 
        android:fitsSystemWindows="true"
        tools:context="com.liferay.docs.liferayguestbook.GuestbooksActivity">

        <android.support.design.widget.AppBarLayout
            android:layout_width="match_parent"
            android:layout_height="wrap_content"
            android:theme="@style/AppTheme.AppBarOverlay">

            <android.support.v7.widget.Toolbar 
                android:id="@+id/toolbar"
                android:layout_width="match_parent" 
                android:layout_height="?attr/actionBarSize"
                android:background="?attr/colorPrimary" 
                app:popupTheme="@style/AppTheme.PopupOverlay" />

        </android.support.design.widget.AppBarLayout>

        <include layout="@layout/content_guestbooks" />

        <android.support.design.widget.FloatingActionButton 
            android:id="@+id/fab"
            android:layout_width="wrap_content" 
            android:layout_height="wrap_content"
            android:layout_gravity="bottom|end" 
            android:layout_margin="@dimen/fab_margin"
            android:src="@android:drawable/ic_dialog_email" />

    </android.support.design.widget.CoordinatorLayout>

The `AppBarLayout` and `Toolbar` elements define the toolbar at the top of the 
activity. Following the toolbar definition, the `include` statement adds the 
`content_guestbooks` layout to `app_bar_guestbooks`. The `content_guestbooks` 
layout defines the content displayed in the activity's body (below the toolbar). 
Right now, this layout only contains an empty `ConstraintLayout` element. Now 
open `content_guestbooks.xml`. Its contents should look similar to this: 

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
    <android.support.constraint.ConstraintLayout xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
        xmlns:app="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res-auto"
        xmlns:tools="http://schemas.android.com/tools"
        android:layout_width="match_parent"
        android:layout_height="match_parent"
        app:layout_behavior="@string/appbar_scrolling_view_behavior"
        tools:context="com.liferay.docs.liferayguestbook.GuestbooksActivity"
        tools:showIn="@layout/app_bar_guestbooks">

    </android.support.constraint.ConstraintLayout>

Anything you define in this layout becomes the activity's main body content. 
Later, you'll return to `content_guestbooks.xml` to display the guestbook 
entries retrieved from the Guestbook portlet. 

Now return to `app_bar_guestbooks.xml`. This layout concludes by using 
`FloatingActionButton` to define the floating action button. Pressing this 
button in the app slides a 
[snackbar](https://www.google.com/design/spec/components/snackbars-toasts.html) 
containing placeholder content up from the bottom of the screen. Although you 
won't do anything with the floating action button in this Learning Path, you'll 
leave it in place. When you finish this Learning Path, you may want to test your 
Liferay mobile development chops by adding functionality to this button. 

The following figure illustrates how the `app_bar_guestbooks` layout maps to the 
activity's UI. On the left, this figure lists each UI component in 
`app_bar_guestbooks`. Each arrow points to the component's rendering on the 
right. 

![Figure 2: The layout `app_bar_guestbooks.xml` defines the activity's main content.](../../../images/android-app-bar-guestbooks.png)

Awesome! Now you know which layout files in the project define the app's UI. You 
also know the exact UI components these files define. Next, you'll prepare 
`GuestbooksActivity` for Guestbook List Screenlet. 
