# Using Guestbook List Screenlet [](id=using-guestbook-list-screenlet)

The steps for using Guestbook List Screenlet are the same as those for using any
Screenlet: 

1. Insert the Screenlet's XML in the activity or fragment layout you want the 
   Screenlet to appear in. 

2. Implement the Screenlet's listener in the activity or fragment class. 

Recall that you used these steps to insert Login Screenlet in `MainActivity`. 
First, you'll insert Guestbook List Screenlet's XML in `GuestbooksActivity`'s 
layout. 

## Inserting the Screenlet XML in the Layout [](id=inserting-the-screenlet-xml-in-the-layout)

Recall that `activity_guestbooks.xml` defines `GuestbooksActivity`'s UI. Also 
recall that the `NavigationView` in `activity_guestbooks.xml` defines the 
navigation drawer. 

To put Guestbook List Screenlet in the drawer, you must insert the
Screenlet's XML in the `NavigationView`. You must also remove the
placeholder content from the `NavigationView`. To do these things, replace
the `NavigationView` in `activity_guestbooks.xml` with this code: 

    <android.support.design.widget.NavigationView
        android:id="@+id/nav_view"
        android:layout_width="wrap_content"
        android:layout_height="match_parent"
        android:layout_gravity="start"
        android:fitsSystemWindows="true"
        app:headerLayout="@layout/nav_header_guestbooks">

        <com.liferay.docs.guestbooklistscreenlet.GuestbookListScreenlet
            android:id="@+id/guestbooklist_screenlet"
            android:layout_width="match_parent"
            android:layout_height="match_parent"
            android:paddingTop="@dimen/nav_header_height"
            app:layoutId="@layout/list_guestbooks"/>

    </android.support.design.widget.NavigationView>

Compared to the `NavigationView` it replaced, this `NavigationView` contains 
Guestbook List Screenlet's XML and lacks the `app:menu` attribute. Recall that 
this attribute pointed to the menu resource file that creates the drawer's 
items. Since the Screenlet now handles the drawer's items (the guestbooks), you 
don't need `app:menu` or the menu resource file. Delete the menu resource file 
`res/menu/activity_guestbooks_drawer.xml`. You also don't need the drawable 
resources that Android Studio created for the navigation drawer's placeholder 
content. Delete `res/values/drawables.xml`, and each of the `ic_menu_*.xml` 
files in `res/drawable`.

Returning your attention to `activity_guestbooks.xml`, note that Guestbook List 
Screenlet's XML strongly resembles Login Screenlet's XML. Both contain an 
`android:id` value that you can use in the activity to get a reference to the 
Screenlet. Both also use a `layoutId` attribute to specify the Screenlet's View. 
Guestbook List Screenlet's XML, however, differs by using the 
`android:paddingTop` attribute. This attribute's value, 
`@dimen/nav_header_height`, pads the top of the Screenlet by the height of the 
navigation drawer's header section. This prevents the Screenlet and drawer 
header from overlapping. 

Great! Next, you'll implement the Screenlet's listener interface in 
`GuestbooksActivity`. 

## Implementing the Screenlet's Listener [](id=implementing-the-screenlets-listener)

To use a Screenlet, you must implement its listener methods in the class of the 
activity or fragment where you want the Screenlet to appear. How you implement 
these methods depends on how you want the Screenlet to function in your app. For 
example, when you used Login Screenlet you implemented `LoginListener` in 
`MainActivity`. You implemented this listener's `onLoginSuccess` and 
`onLoginFailure` methods to display a message to the user. You then changed the 
`onLoginSuccess` implementation to navigate from `MainActivity` to 
`GuestbooksActivity`. Since these methods are `void`, however, you could have 
left them empty. Obviously this wouldn't have made for a very useful app, but it 
highlights an important point: Screenlet listener methods let the app developer 
choose how to respond to the Screenlet's events. By implementing these methods, 
app developers can therefore control how the Screenlet functions with their app. 

Before implementing Guestbook List Screenlet's listener, however, you should add 
a method that the listener methods can use to help display a guestbook and its 
entries. You might now be thinking, "I thought you said Screenlets contain their 
own UIs? Why does the activity need special methods for displaying the 
Screenlets' entities?" Although a list Screenlet's UI displays the list of 
entities, the rest of the app's UI must still account for that list. Consider 
the action bar, for example. List Screenlets don't include an action bar, but 
you should still change the action bar's contents to reflect what's on the 
screen. When a guestbook is selected in Guestbook List Screenlet, the action bar 
should display that guestbook's name. You can accomplish this by calling a 
method that takes a `GuestbookModel` and sets that guestbook's name as the 
action bar's title. 

Follow these steps to add this method and implement the listener:

1.  Add this `showEntries` method to `GuestbooksActivity`: 

        public void showEntries(GuestbookModel guestbook) {

            actionBar.setTitle(guestbook.getName());
        }

    This requires you to import `com.liferay.docs.model.GuestbookModel`. This 
    method is called `showEntries` because you'll also use it to display the 
    guestbook's entries via Entry List Screenlet (you'll add this code later). 
    You'll call this method in the listener methods you'll implement to process 
    a guestbook selection. 

2.  Recall that Guestbook List Screenlet doesn't need any custom listener
    methods. It can use the listener methods defined in the list Screenlet
    framework's 
    [`BaseListListener` interface](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-screens/blob/2.1.0/android/library/src/main/java/com/liferay/mobile/screens/base/list/BaseListListener.java). 
    Change `GuestbooksActivity`'s class declaration to implement
    `BaseListListener<GuestbookModel>`. The class declaration should now look 
    like this: 

        public class GuestbooksActivity extends AppCompatActivity implements 
            BaseListListener<GuestbookModel> {...

    This requires you to import 
    `com.liferay.mobile.screens.base.list.BaseListListener`. 

3.  To implement `BaseListListener`, you must implement the following methods:

    - `onListPageFailed(int startRow, Exception e)`: Called when the server call 
      to retrieve a page of items fails. This method's arguments include the 
      `Exception` generated when the server call failed. Implement this method 
      to show the user a 
      [toast](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/ui/notifiers/toasts.html) 
      message containing an error: 

            @Override
            public void onListPageFailed(int startRow, Exception e) {

                Toast.makeText(this, "Page request failed", Toast.LENGTH_LONG).show();
            }

        This requires you to import `android.widget.Toast`. 

    - `onListPageReceived(int startRow, int endRow, List<E> entries, int rowCount)`: 
      Called when the server call to retrieve a page of items succeeds. Note 
      that this method's arguments include the list of objects retrieved from 
      the server (`entries`), and the page's start row (`startRow`), and end row 
      (`endRow`). Recall that by default, you want the activity to display the 
      first guestbook's entries. You'll use this method to do so because it 
      receives the guestbooks from the server. Note that because `startRow` and 
      `endRow` change for each page, a `startRow` of `0` corresponds to the 
      first guestbook on the first page. Use an `if` statement to select this 
      guestbook, and then call `showEntries`: 

            @Override
            public void onListPageReceived(int startRow, int endRow, List<GuestbookModel> guestbooks, 
                int rowCount) {

                if (startRow == 0) {
                    showEntries(guestbooks.get(0));
                }
            }

        This requires you to import `java.util.List`. 

    - `onListItemSelected(E element, View view)`: Called when the user selects 
      an item in the list. This method's arguments include the selected list 
      item (`element`). To process the guestbook's selection, call `showEntries` 
      in this method. Also, close the navigation drawer following the 
      `showEntries` call: 

            @Override
            public void onListItemSelected(GuestbookModel guestbook, View view) {

                showEntries(guestbook);
                drawer.closeDrawers();
            }

4.  Because `BaseListListener` extends the 
    [`BaseCacheListener` interface](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-screens/blob/2.1.0/android/library/src/main/java/com/liferay/mobile/screens/base/interactor/listener/BaseCacheListener.java), 
    the activity must also implement `BaseCacheListener`'s `error` method. This
    method lets you respond to an error alongside the user action that caused 
    it. In this app, you don't need to do anything in this method, so you can 
    leave its contents empty: 

        @Override
        public void error(Exception e, String userAction) {

        }

5.  Now that you've implemented the listener methods, you must set
    `GuestbooksActivity` as the listener. This is where the
    `guestbooklist_screenlet` ID that you set in the Screenlet's XML comes in
    handy. Add the following code to the end of the activity's `onCreate`
    method: 

        GuestbookListScreenlet screenlet = 
            (GuestbookListScreenlet) findViewById(R.id.guestbooklist_screenlet);
        screenlet.setListener(this);

    This requires you to import 
    `com.liferay.docs.guestbooklistscreenlet.GuestbookListScreenlet`. 

    This code first uses the ID `guestbooklist_screenlet` to get a reference to 
    `GuestbookListScreenlet`. It then sets this `GuestbooksActivity` instance as 
    the Screenlet's listener. 

Great! That's it! Your app's `GuestbooksActivity` now contains Guestbook List 
Screenlet. You're almost ready to use Entry List Screenlet. Before you do so, 
however, you must create a fragment to put it in. You'll do this next. 
