# Creating Pages [](id=creating-pages)

From *Site Pages*, you can add a page or child page to any existing page or page
set by clicking the `+` button in the top right corner. Because *Public Pages*
is selected on the top, clicking `+` here adds a top level page making it
a sibling page of the Welcome page. You can, however, nest pages as deeply as
you like. To create a sub-page under the Welcome page, click the `+` button next
to *Welcome*.

Adding a child page creates child pages in the hierarchy below the page you've 
selected. You can nest pages as deep as you like and you can manage that 
hierarchy through Navigation Menus [link]. 

Once you've clicked the `+` icon to add a page, you're asked to select the type
of page you are creating:

**Full Page Application:** creates a page that displays a single full page
application.

**Layout:** creates a page with a layout template that defines the number of
rows and columns for adding applications to your page in a custom layout.

**Panel:** a page containing any number of applications as selected by an
administrator, but only one is displayed at a time. Users select the portlet
they want to use from a menu on the left side of the page, and the selected
portlet takes up the entire page. 

**Embedded:** displays content from another website inside your instance. An
administrator can set a URL from the page management interface and that page
appears in the context and within the navigation of your Liferay instance.

**Content:** created from a page template.

![Figure 1: You must select a page type when adding pages.](../../../../images/page-types-adding.png)

Now that you know the basics of adding site pages, you can start working on the
Lunar Resort site. If you're not currently on the right site, navigate to Site
Administration in the Menu, select the compass icon next to the current site
name, and select the site you wish to edit.

If you ever need to modify the page you've created for your site, select
*Configure* from the Options menu for the page from *Site Pages*. When
configuring a specific page, you're given more options than when you were
creating a new page. These extended options for configuring specific pages are
covered in more detail later. 

There are also configuration options that are only available for either
individual pages or page groups only. You'll learn about options available for
both instances.

Next, you'll look at the options you have available for configuring your public
or private pages as a whole, and the individual pages residing within those
groups.
